# What is a gameplaying AI?
`Games are interesting because they are too hard to solve.`

-Russell, Stuart and Peter Norvic

---
How fair are the matches between game AI's and human players?

Once we solve Starcraft we have solved real world problems.

From "When are we done with Games? (2019) N. Justesen, S. Risi.

---
When will AI exceed human performance?

There are several areas of popular interest in AI (2018).

---
Commercial interest in AI game players:
* Teammates
* Enemies

"AI is faster than human game playtesting"
Zhao

---
AI competitions use benchmarks.

# Moravec Paradox
About AI

Things that humans find hard: no problem.

Things that humans find easy: not so much.

This leads the trend of generalization in game playing AI's that cam play multiple games.

---
DQN is a general AI for retro arcade games

Agent57 is a state-of-the-art Ai from 2020 for this
https://www.deepmind.com/blog/agent57-outperforming-the-human-atari-benchmark

Other communities on AI
http://www.gvgai.net/
https://github.com/GAIGResearch/GVGAI

---
What are the long-term plans for AI

AlphaStar and OpenAI Five show that agents can be trains without explicit hierarchical macro-actions to reach superhuman skill in games.

Raiman, Jonathan, Susan Zhang, Filip Wolski. "Long-term planning and situational awareness in OpenAI five" (2019)

https://openai.com/blog/openai-five-defeats-dota-2-world-champions/

---
When will it end?

When there's an AI a human can play against it for a long period of time.

Justesen, Niels, Michael S. Debus, Christian Risi. "When are we done with games? (2019)

# AI game player milestones
In 1950 Claude Shannon published his work on how to program a computer to play chess.

1952 Checkers/drafts by Stachey. Logical or non-mathematical programs.

1979 Backgammon H. Berliner. In 1980 it beat the backgammon world champion.

1992 Jonathan Schaeffer beats the world champion.

1997 Deep Blue beats world chess world champion Garry Kasparov.

2002 Scrabble. Brian Sheppard created a world-champion caliber Scrabble AI.

2007 Jonathan Schaeffer indicates Checkers is solved with AI.

2009 The first Mario AI competition to 2012. Nintendo did not agree with the competition using the graphics. Lasted until 2012.

2015 Atari. Human-level control through deep reinforcement learning.

2016 Go. An AI beat the world champion.

2018 Head-up no-limit Texas hold'em Poker. Libratus Ai beats top pros in this type of poker.

2019 Dota 2. Long-term planning and situational awareness in OpenAI five. Jonathan Raiman, Susan Shang.

2020 Atari 57. The AI agent was able to play all 57 Atari games and outperform human players.

# How might we build a game playing AI?

What is the DQN?

We start by playing the game.

We ask questions:
* How do we get points?
* Which way is the ball going?
* Where are the bricks?
* How do we get the ball on the correct side?

The AI gets the pixels view of the screen (RGB), score and whether the game is over or not. It outputs Left, Right or No-move.

### Reinformcent learning is
> How agents can learn what to do in the absence of labeled examples of what to do.
> Playing a new game you don't know and after a hundred or so moves, the opponent announces if you lose.
-Russell, Norvic

The key elements of a reinforcement learning algorithm are:
* States (The pixels coming in)
* Actions (Left, Right, Nowt)
* Rewards (The score points)

By formalizing the problem we can operate on it to simulate how a human plays a game (limited access)
